I love Linux
drivers they're so good I love when my
internet shuts itself off for absolutely
no reason even though my network is up
and then no combination of
rebooting drivers actually fixes
it it's freaking
lovely there is literally not a single
working desktop operating system in
exist that just consistently doesn't
screw
up
um oh one
row chat
thingy okay this was what I was looking
at this function
here e
better
right and how does it look locally if we
go from like
say -2 to status on neoc carbs yeah
figuring out ideal transforms mostly
um the
issue is that with certain types of
data you need a meaningful
interpretation of absolute Improvement
of score but like your data could be
percentile it could be log distributed
it could be linear so uh I'm looking for
something here that we can that we can
use
it's locally pretty nice and
linear what transform they use their
quanti transform doesn't work with
percentile data and also it's a pain in
the ass it's like ridiculously overly
complicated for what it
is also a lot of their stuff just
doesn't work
so
yeah I think that they like the thing is
they mostly got the result that they did
because they were the first ones to run
a
um a large scale hyper parameter sweep
on proen at all um the algorithm was
like okay but it was more that the idea
is very good and there's a lot that
needed improving on
it
yeah well because here this is the type
of thing that happens right stupid
researchers say that like oh here's
proin you're supposed to solve it with
one set of hyper parameters and then
nobody bothers to like think that wait a
second we're using Po and like all these
other algorithms that have time
dependent hyperparameters like gamma and
Lambda and these inherently are
different for environment and we're
trying to force one set to solve all the
environments which is never going to
work so we're just going to sit here and
like say oh it's hard we can't solve it
instead of just tuning the damn hyper
parameters right so it's like
ridiculous well also proen is uh the
like here's the other annoying thing
procgen the environment is quite fast
procgen the base model that everyone
uses for it is very slow so basically
even if you give researchers nice things
they will find a way to ruin
them yeah this is pretty good it's like
close to linear
locally yep pixels is
inputs we have to learn from pixels oh
so you have compute right no we're
Academia we have uh we have $500,000
budget for compute oh that's pretty good
so you're going to buy like you know a
bunch of desktops or something right oh
no we're going to buy h00 and then we're
going to run them at 10% utilization and
like
it's it's just like lighting money on
fire like they light performance on fire
they light money on fire drives me
absolutely
insane how did I get puffer off the
ground by buying some desktops putting
them in a
garage it drives me insane
man isn't seeing like humans are what's
the point what are we even doing
exactly if it isn't see like humans
are after all us humans are so smart
we're the only species capable of
building amazing things then utilizing
them at 1 10,000 deficiency
all this is a pretty good
transform you got to at 11,000
efficiency e
let's try this
out and then my favorite part is that
then the scientists
decid the science positions are more
prestigious than the engineering
positions it's like what are you guys
doing
my favorite thing is now because I'm the
scientist I get to complain about this
and it's not even lame
anymore it's like lame when it's like
the engineer complains why the scientist
think they're so cool but now it's like
I can actually say stuff and it's like
it
works it's the best part
and I can be like hey a scientist write
code that doesn't make my eyes
bed this makes my eyes bleed for
reference do not use this as your
example
diminish
results it's the
opposite you see what happens
is so eight
19 or was it here 15 - 14 = 1 right 20 -
19 is also equal to one but going from
19 to 20 is you're solving the task and
going from 15 to 14 is a very small
Improvement and the same exact thing
happens with percentile data right going
from 0.9 to 0.999 is huge going from
like 08 to 0.9 is not as huge
for
e e
uh well that's because Claude is very
stupid oh did you see there was a
hilarious thing in one of the uh the
Twitter chats where
like somebody put in the uh the US
tariffs plan and Claude like could not
fathom how it would even be possible and
was like predicting that you know the US
Supply would be replaced by like the
farm supply would be replaced by
products from Asia and the US would
crumble and whatever and 24 hours
later 24 hours later it's like yeah nope
that
worked oh it's
ridiculous CL is not very
smart for
okay so this gives you transforms for
but I need to have like
like
this we
normalize Twitter is not good for you
it's very bad for
you R1 you talk about H
code he sends all the data straight to
China
unless you're running it
locally of course open uh chat GPT sends
all the data to open AI I don't know
which one is
worse me a data Hogs I have to set up
our own private puffer cluster for
running these
things off our cluster
mhm
who do you trust more with your data Sam
Alman or madong who has secretly been
alive all this time and is still leading
China
they actually solved AGI and
achieved um achieved immortality during
the cultural
revolution and they did it with 5.5
million of compute
the
heck
barely yeah about right
see eventually when the cut off date
goes far off enough ahead and it starts
training on puffer code I'm just going
to like find and extract bits of puffer
code and be like hey see the coding
capabilities got so much better cuz it
finally trained on some good code you're
welcome for
I think I did this right
activations in
place are you sure that's not for
inference
I guess you could use it in the roll out
collection
stage yeah cuz it'll destroy your
gradients if you use it for training
well you're free to investigate anything
but I suggest uh what you do is you know
you make a table in science what you do
is you make a table
of things that are likely to be useful
and then you rank them from by How
likely they are to be useful and how
useful they're likely to be
morning and then you do them in
approximately that
order modu what you find
interesting for
redo my web server that's obnoxious
H so it's not
happy it should
be oh because I have the wrong Max in
there okay so yeah this is what it is
with a completely screw a Max and then
the max should actually here be
one
1.0 let's try this
oh even
lower oh we'll have to look at this
oh wait we don't want untransformed
squore me we want a normalized square
yeah we don't want to undo the transform
the whole point is to have the
transform okay so this thing doesn't
work either right here now what about
this invalid value
it's a little
better uh it's breaking because the
predicted score is um
mhm yeah it's breaking with the
predicted
score CL are a little
better little better than before
raw scores come
in you get the transform
scores want five is probably good
the suggestions come in
okay so this is a little better you see
we actually have some points out
here we don't go out to here
though reason being the predictions are
all
one predictions should not all be
one these should be very nicely
separated in latent space
let me see if I I'm undoing it
wrong and we want to log untransformed
work me
right e
the
heck it's
weird um a normalized
let's put a break point like here
me double check
uh some
messages
oops I love when auntu can't update
itself
normally not that bad to update at least
so I'm good I don't have anything for a
few
hours
puff Puffer
okay normalized score
mean
mean so it's scan carbs today work today
various work I'm basically just stealing
time to work on this whenever I can cuz
I have a million other projects um that
need to get done but this one is very
very very important to RL progress so
whenever I can I work on this and
um I have some robotic stuff that has to
get done I got some other client stuff
that's got to get done today but uh you
know whenever I can do
this I do
this this is like the thing that in my
mind at the moment this needs to happen
so RL moves forward if this does not
happen RL does not move forward period
so that's
simple I think in those sorts of terms
you
know all right so something screwing
here
because what we do transform
scores did I undo it wrong hang on I
think I undid it
wrong you take
unnormalized but this is the transform
right so negative
log so you
dox
right and then this gives you minus
this oh so yeah I'm just
trolling my
bad and then what you have to do is you
do this minus what is
it -1 +
x and then you
multiply Max score
I don't know why it is that the
autocomplete just breaks sometimes like
it should be completing this right and
it's just not it's like come on I'm
paying for auto complete you going to
make me type
this does it just stop yeah
let me do this before I uh at them on
Twitter already up to
date well there now it
works yeah you see how fast it's
supposed to
be it's like instant when it
works for
oh wait this is supposed to be in
transform space isn't it
no no no no something's screwy here let
me see
normalized
course there we
go uh and you actually got to
[Music]
do man
we're going to start cleaning this up at
some point very soon here so I stop
making these dumb
mistakes for
there we
go that looks way
better and I think I missed a negative
sign here
how did I miss a negative
sign it's puffer Li easy to set up in
Mac it should be and if it isn't I'm
right here I stream almost all day so if
it isn't you come tell me and I fix
it uh you can't use puffer tank is the
only thing so you can't use our
container because it's a GPU container
but you can absolutely just install
puffer
lib I should make a CPU container at
some point that would be good
hang on oh yeah there's a negative sign
at the
end right there I missed a
negative will I be able yes you you will
be able to develop some of your own M um
the one thing that I will tell you is
that if you want to write C
environments uh Mac as a development
environment at least as far as I have
seen out of the box you're missing some
very useful debugging flags on the
compiler
um the S the address sanitizer
specifically yeah I that doesn't work
out of the box just on Mac in general I
think
um it might be worth getting like a CPU
container for that uh or like just
sshing to any Linux box but I mean you
can get by it's just yeah oh they work
with playing 18 perfect then just use
playing 18 and ignore
me good
job
see that's why I
stream I get people answering stuff for
me it's great
should add that to the
docks Leak Detection doesn't
work that's not the most critical
one that should work though but that's
easy for me to fix in a
PR the freaking array bounds are the
annoying ones
this is
beautiful now let's see if it actually
trains 999 yep
and I forgot the mac
somewhere hang on how do I do
thisa Max score *
n.x
negative fix our math
how this
happen normalized nearest pitos wait
unnormalized this times this plus this
right MPS is a
device start setting up
come up if I can uh if it works in torch
it should work in puffer as a
device like we're not doing anything
fancy like on top of
torch if it doesn't you come back and if
I'm not on if I'm not streaming I'm
usually just taking a break to go
exercise or get food pretty much always
streaming my
Dev
for e
why is this then
breaking
for e
puffer is insane we got 120x speed up
that's on the low
end if uh what's the if you run a perf
test let me know the end steps per
second should be over a million on
that's on one CPU core it'll multi
process as well having some issues with
logging of rewards are you free to help
with this yes and in fact I have code
that you can just copy paste directly in
that will log everything the exact way
that you should be logging
it it is in every single
environment uh I will give you the
latest version that I stuck
into the late the last environment that
I
wrote offer
R.H all right you see all this log code
right here there's like I don't know 50
lines of log code just use
this copy paste
in and then you uh if you look in the
scon you'll see how you aggregate logs
across all your different
environments and if that's not clear
enough then yes I can look at code
directly
Also let's see did we get anything from
um want to see if I got
any oh
yeah at this did anybody actually go
Star
it why is this thing not
load I think we got a few
every so often you got to do the star
promo invalid and log
ah so how's there an invalid and log
here anything think
oh wait log of zero is
one then what was I afraa of
here is this plus
apps I think it a plus apps isn't
it
mm so that's got to be minus Epsilon
solid
these look way
better 998 score 998
it's overconfident in a couple
places why is it let the predicted score
get up that high
ideally it should get
clipped but I think this is way better
already
let's
see hey look at that so we've
got
603s still doesn't go that far
out look at this curve though look how
nicely it filled this in holy look at
this
where's
this look at this right here you see
this perfect
fill that's a perfect parito front right
there
setup docs puffer
doai all our
stuff single page super
easy yeah this synthetic test
man but we're we're looking at different
common data distributions and making
sure that it can actually work because
here's the thing base carbs horribly
fails the synthetic test as do most
other
algorithms so if it can't freaking
figure it out in the case where it has
perfect data and a very good model then
what's it going to do
i' like to rescale the percentile test
just a little bit
here need to be just a little shallower
plus wait
score one plus how's this
work how the heck does this percentile
task work am I dumb
okay so this is 0 to
one oh I see
let me see how this
looks that it's just there are some
optimal hyper prams they're not
randomized and I'm fitting it to a curve
so I have like a uh there's like a
linear one a log one and a percentile
one this is strictly to test out um the
interaction of various terms in the
objective
function there we go that's way more
reasonable
and then what's Happening Here is it's
not getting
perfect even at high cost because the
model
is oh no this one's decent hold
on plus 30
yeah okay look at that that's there
we're
good okay so I rescaled it just so it
wouldn't all Bunch up here so much um
it's still a good test
right I might have gone a little too
heavy on
it we do cost over 10
instead that cuz I want to see that it
can like fill in this steep Reg in
here so I mean but this is still pretty
good here
like here's all the random data and you
see that it actually it filled in mostly
what we would
want so it filled in right here and it
filled in even over here these points
I especially like how it's got like this
dense coverage of the elbow
here and there's there are a couple
points like down here and stuff as well
so like it is actually going to cover
the lower regions but yeah yeah this is
good and if we make the task a little
more aggressively uh cut
off actually works
better I guess it makes sense they just
didn't have support before and here I
see that there are a couple higher
samples okay
see so we did this we did this and now
we do
whoops we do
this oh
yeah look at that
check the logging against pong would you
mind taking a look
y uh let me know what is wrong with it
and I assume the changes are pushed to
the same place as
before and go find
it looking where' It
Go was in gen chat logging perfect
yeah you just paste the logging
in
R
reset step
MH looks fine so
far is it not working for
you you got log buffer added
in here's your log
buffer there
yeah so I mean that all looks
fine um is something not working
back go
score and reward are always the
same and the values keep
disappearing well that's log frequency
values disappearing is just they're not
getting logged frequently enough most
likely uh but which would be very weird
with a report interval of one but if you
have a very small batch size that's
still
possible and like you have config any
h no you have a reasonable batch I don't
know where you got these parameters from
these are moderately unhinged
parameters um the 4 d96 mini batch is
Tiny compared to the batch size in
particular uh let me see science
have you rendered
it is there a
render oh you guys didn't add a
renderer you should add a renderer it
won't be very much code um because
usually my debugging routine for this
stuff is like there's a c build where
you just build it and see right so it's
a standalone and then I just will watch
what the agent is doing and I'll print
out the rewards it's doing stuff and see
if it's
correct so I would add like a little
renderer it's just like a point in 3D
space
right mm and
any that's probably confusing
huh all right because you're using the
ocean you're using ocean you have a
native environment uh this is when you
make your environment class right your
like drone end in internally it's going
to have
1,24 different
environments uh regardless of whether
you're using Ocean or you're using like
Atari that doesn't have the ability to
do this the number of environments here
is the number of these whole things that
it's going to spawn so if you set this
to two now you have 20 48
environments and the cool thing is
technically like let's say that your m
is fast but not quite fast enough you
can set this to two you can keep this at
one and then it's asynchronous so it
actually will trade off between blocks
of 1040 ,24
environments but I'd add a basic little
render dis Spenser
[Music]
around let me link you his
thing he's he has some example code
let me find an older version before he
made all these changes for you
okay here is your
link it's in the Discord uh that gives
you a very very basic example on 3D
rendering you literally just need like
an empty
scene with you know a sphere for your
drone and if there objectives or places
that it's going to go to put a sphere
over there as well and you'll be able to
see what's going on there you go
so this thing here
speeding up the
ball that would be an environment
config that would change the way the
game plays
okay
171 so this point yeah right here this
is the best
point and this gets high
rating it's over predicting a little
bit should cap it at
least does that even
help maybe helps a little bit
I guess it is factored into Epsilon with
the
Epsilon Transformers are pretty
good Transformers are pretty
good I mean there's still a lot to do
here try this on log real quick
not 200 right
hang
on log
2.3 for
it does somewhat bother me that it's
chosen not to fill out this area but the
thing is I think that this is so densely
Filled from the initial Point estimates
that this should be fine and I saw it
fill this point in uh this portion in
before so I think it's probably fine and
actually these points here are from I
think these points here are from uh the
algorithm right yeah yeah these points
here as well so it is doing
it okay so this is very good there's
even one over
here
nams
nams oh I think you have to go you have
to overestimate not underestimate that's
why if you're going to
estimate it again
the next thing captain on this is going
to be to figure out
um why the variance of the predictions
is significantly overestimating the
confidence of these models like these
models are way too confident even when
they're very wrong and then uh
incorporating conservative bounds
because basically I have it here this
just works when there's no noise and um
you have a good gussian process model of
Cl for or at least a pretty good
one so we have to figure out
why uh why these are so overly
confident e
hey that's pretty
nice introduce some noise
but the thing is it's wrong
so
yeah this pretty good though look at
this this is
solid let's see if linear screws it up
now because of the transform that we
applied
I think this is a good Transformer I
think we finally found the good
transform
e e
okay this is
suspicious I think we broke linear
hang on I think we broke the easy test
by solving the hard
test don't you love it when you do that
now you have the harder
one yeah freaking
thing
well and not terrible to be
honest it's actually come to think of it
this is not a bad outcome
because hold on maybe this is a feature
not a
bug all right maybe this is a feature
bug can we sell this as a
feature I think we canell this is a
feature so hear me out all right you
almost never see this
curve um in reinforcement learning like
ever the only time you see this curve is
basically when you like you learn a
perfect policy or whatever and you just
have to run it for longer uh in order to
like get the higher and higher
score and maybe you make very small
refinements along the way I've only ever
seen this in
Enduro now if that is the
case then there's absolutely no reason
to explore the lower cost hyper pram
space here as
much in fact the only reason to explore
it is if your model is not
confident in its predictions so you use
it to bootstrap the uh the confidence
up so uh and then in reality here this
cost this Max this score what would this
be how would you set a Max score on
something like
that we're probably going to have to
come up with something where like if you
don't give it a Max score we come up
with
one maybe it's double your current Max
I mean this isn't even bad like you fill
out some points it misses a couple but
this is a model quality problem so we'll
handle that
separately it's generally pretty
good did it have any really bad misses
here 140 at
125 wait how' it do that
that shouldn't be possible
right we log
him untransformed
oh no no we're good we're good that's
possible yeah yeah because look the
prediction is just wrong by a bit see we
actually it's cost 120 and we only get
119 was fine this is actually even a
good this is actually even a a good
point this doesn't miss too bad so none
of these are really bad misses some of
them off by a bit but none of them are
like really bad
misses it's about like this distance
it's fine
all right um nearby distant rating mean
so rating is the overall score where
highest rating is the one that gets
picked to be sampled and um the nearby
distance we're evaluating distance to
nearest Paro point and using that as
part of our uh our search
criteria I happy with this
so we fixed uh we have fixed output
scaling
now I think we just look at model
variants model variants will be the next
topic but I'm going to go get breakfast
go get breakfast go for a run do some
stuff got a meeting and then I will be
uh back in a bit